# MSDS-457-NBA-Expansion-Team-in-Vegas
We applied analytical models and case studies to predict sponsorship opportunities, customer relationship management, and ticketing and attendance in addition to analyzing player acquisition, salary, and team performance.

Introduction

It’s no secret that Las Vegas is a heavily considered market for an NBA expansion team. A Washington Post article details LeBron James’ desire to own a team in this entertainment and gambling destination. After playing a preseason game at T-Mobile Arena, James acknowledged the wonderful fan support in the city, and he has the billion-dollar net worth to bring a new NBA team to life (Golliver, 2022). As members of the analytics department for the NBA expansion team in Las Vegas, the Vegas Vipers, we wanted to address the city’s sports market. Las Vegas has had an increasing presence in the sports industry as it is home to NFL, NHL, and WNBA teams. By sharing the state-of-the-art T-Mobile Arena with the Vegas Golden Knights, the Vipers would immediately have a home and excited fan base. Per the Sports Media Watch that ranked the top 115 U.S.- based “Big Four” professional sports teams and 80 “Power” conference college programs based on Nielsen TV market sizes, Las Vegas fell 40th (“Major Pro Sports…”, 2018). This number is solely determined by the number of homes in the city, and it does not take into consideration that Las Vegas is an entertainment destination. The Vegas Vipers will be able to attract tourists and build a fanbase with existing and new residents moving to the growing city.
  
This report analyzes two components that are crucial for the Vipers’ success: revenue generation and roster acquisition. These revenue generating components we analyzed include sponsorships, customer relationship management (CRM), and ticketing and attendance. The roster component includes player acquisition, salary, and team and player performance. Each factor has a significant impact on NBA teams’ valuations. Sponsorships are a growing industry in the NBA and team sponsorship revenue has reached $1.5 billion during the 2023-24 season (Badenhausen, 2024). A team needs to prioritize CRM strategies to positively interact with their fans and ensure they continue to buy tickets and attend games. Since this is an expansion team, player acquisition is necessary. It will help us determine the roster to estimate expected costs for player salaries and estimate future team performance. Understanding each of these key elements will help the Vegas Vipers reach their goals on and off the court.


